---
layout: post
title: "Data Science Update IV"
categories:
  - Blog Posts
top_tags: General
exc: "One year into my data science journey, I give you updates on how far I've come, and where I'm headed."
tags:
- Data Science
- Update
---

<br> 

A full year has passed since I decided to start this blog and document my journey to becoming a data scientist. I'm happy to say that the last three months have been the most productive so far!

My previous update can be found [here]({{ site.baseurl }}/ds-update-3). 

To keep accountable, this post will summarize the goals that I set forth three months ago, and set goals for the upcoming six months. That means you can expect the fifth Data Science Update installment to be posted on July 1st, 2019.  

<br> 

### Pass my Coursework

<i>
Success!
</i>

By far the most time-intensive and important accomplishment this quarter was completing the first semester of graduate school. I've completed my coursework in Probability Theory (B), Statistics for Experimenters (A), and Programming in SAS / R (A). 

I've learned more about statistics than I ever thought possible in a single semester. Working in the Statistics tutoring lab for 20 hours a week ensure continuous exposure to fundamental topics in statistics. 

<br> 

### Complete 2 Blog Posts

<i>
Success!
</i>

I went above and beyond, publishing three of my best posts to date. The [Slot Machine Function]({{site.baseurl}}/slot-machine-function), written in R, is fairly long but well explained. [L.A. Parking Citations - EDA Part I]({{site.baseurl}}/parking-citations-part-1) and [L.A. Parking Citations - EDA Part II]({{site.baseurl}}/parking-citations-part-2) are my first posts written in python, were an absolute joy to make. 

I've completed most of the third and fourth installments to this project, however they're still in process of being edited and posted to this site. 

<br> 

### Update Fisherankney.com

<i>
Success!
</i>

This site has been updated several times, it's a continuous work in progress. 

<br> 

### Complete and Review 7 Coding Resources

<i>
Semi-Success!
</i>

In a blaze of ambition, I attempted to complete at review 7 different programming resources in the last three months. The resources are: 

- Hands on Programming with R by Garrett Grolemund (Success)
- Statistics in R by by Sudha Purohit (Success)
- R in Action, Second Edition by Robert Kabacoff (Fail)
- Learn Python the Hard Way by Zed Shaw (Success)
- Think Python by Allen B. Downey (Success)
- Automate the Boring Stuff by Al Sweigart (Fail)
- SQL - MySQL for Data Analytics and Business Intelligence (Udemy Course) (Fail)

As you can see, I successfully worked through, and reviewed, 4/7 of the resources. You can check out what I thought about each of the resources [here]({{ site.baseurl}}/resource-review). As for the remaining resources, their fates are mixed. 

I will complete the SQL course within the next few weeks. I've deemed SQL to be an extremely important technology that I can no longer ignore. 'Automate the Boring Stuff' will be deferred until late 2019, or possibly early 2020. And I've nixed R in Action all together. I'm bored of working through remedial R resources. 

<br> 

### The Next 6 Months

To better align with the semester schedule, I'm re-organizing these updates to encompass 6-months of goals. I've got big plans for the next half year; and while it's hard to say exactly what will be accomplished, this is what I'm aiming for at the moment. 

<br> 

### 2018 Wrap Up

I'm currently exploring Central America for a month. I didn't bring my computer, and I haven't properly wrapped up my 2018 goals. I'll knock out these three items when I return to the United States in late January. 

- Udemy SQL Course (complete & review)
- Edit and post L.A. Parking Citation - EDA Part III
- Edit and post L.A. Parking Citation - EDA Part IV


The L.A. Parking Citation posts are mostly complete, they just need to be annotated and cleaned up a bit.

<br> 

### Pass my Coursework

Next semester I'm taking courses in Mathematical Inference, Applied Regression Analysis and Statistics for Experimenters II. I suspect the workload will be similar to this semester, taking up approximately 50% of my study time. 

<br>

### Internship

Securing an internship is my second most urgent and important goal, just behind my Master's coursework. I'm aiming at internships that are heavy in programming, preferably in Python. Predictive analytics and software engineering positions are at the top of my list. 

So far, I've applied to 40 positions online, receiving two phone interviews.

Once I've obtained a suitable position, I will dedicate myself to learning as much as possible in my role to advance my skills and career. 

<br> 

### Machine Learning Theory 

After a year of hard work, it's finally time to dive into the mysterious realm of machine learning. I plan on learning the foundations through these two resources:

- Andrew Ng Machine Learning Course
- An Introduction to Statistical Learning

Andrew Ng's machine learning course on Coursera is widely acclaimed as one of the best foundational resources for the subject matter. Working through the book 'Introduction to Statistical Learning' in R will allow me to implement new skills as I learn them, hopefully making it an extremely effective learning resource. 

<br> 

### Predictive Analytics in R 

In the next half year, I plan on really pushing my R comfort zone to encompass predictive analysis. Applied Linear Regression will be conducted exclusively in R. I will learn and demonstrate competency with the ModelR package. I'll also dive into the renowned machine learning package, Caret.  

<br> 

### Predictive Analytics in Python

While I'm not as comfortable working in Python, it would be a mistake to avoid Scikit-learn and Keras. Eventually I would like to move into utilizing Tensorflow, but I'm still working on foundational skills in Python. 

I will put my Python skills to the test in a Kaggle kernel or competition before my next data science update. 


<br> 

While it's hard to pin down an entire six months of learning, I think this is a great set of goals to work towards! To be honest, I'm just now realizing how complex data science is.

On the software end you need to know have excellent programming skills in several languages, learn a dozen R packages, at least half a dozen Python packages, SQL databases, NoSQL databases, Tensorflow, AWS, Hadoop, Spark, Bash, and Git. 

On the analytical side there is theoretical statistics, regression techniques, hypothesis testing, machine learning algorithms, Bayesian statistics, optimization techniques, time series analysis, spatial analysis, and multivariate methods and much more. 

On top of these hard skills, it's expected that you have a presentable portfolio with substantial data science projects, a graduate degree, internship experience, a polished resume, LinkedIn, GitHub, and interviewing skills. 

In the end, I think it'll all be worth it. It's encouraging that there are so many ways to 'level up' and become more skilled in this field. I think that I'll really appreciate the breadth of this field, once I officially break into it!

Thanks for following me on the first year of this journey, here's to the next!

<br>

Until next time, <br>
\- Fisher





